lib/haml_lint/linter/README.md, before:

# Linters

Below is a list of linters supported by `haml-lint`, ordered alphabetically.

* [ClassesBeforeIds](#classesbeforeids)
* [ConsecutiveComments](#consecutivecomments)
* [ConsecutiveSilentScripts](#consecutivesilentscripts)
* [EmptyScript](#emptyscript)
* [ImplicitDiv](#implicitdiv)
* [LeadingCommentSpace](#leadingcommentspace)
* [LineLength](#linelength)
* [MultilinePipe](#multilinepipe)
* [ObjectReferenceAttributes](#objectreferenceattributes)
* [RuboCop](#rubocop)
* [RubyComments](#rubycomments)
* [SpaceBeforeScript](#spacebeforescript)
* [TagName](#tagname)
* [UnnecessaryInterpolation](#unnecessaryinterpolation)
* [UnnecessaryStringOutput](#unnecessarystringoutput)

## ClassesBeforeIds

List classes before IDs in tags.

**Bad: ID before class**
```haml
%tag#id.class
```

**Good**
```haml
%tag.class#id
```

These attributes should be listed in order of their specificity. Since the tag
name (if specified) always comes first and has the lowest specificity, classes
and then IDs should follow.

## ConsecutiveComments

Consecutive comments should be condensed into a single multiline comment.

**Bad**
```haml
-# A collection
-# of many
-# consecutive comments
```

**Good**
```haml
-# A multiline comment
   is much more clean
   and concise
```

## ConsecutiveSilentScripts

Option            | Description
------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
`max_consecutive` | Maximum number of consecutive scripts allowed before warning (default `2`)

Avoid writing multiple lines of Ruby using silent script markers (`-`).

**Bad**
```haml
- expression_one
- expression_two
- expression_three
```

**Better**
```haml
:ruby
  expression_one
  expression_two
  expression_three
```

In general, large blocks of Ruby code in HAML templates are a smell, and this
check serves to warn you of that. However, for the cases where having the code
inline can improve readability, you can signal your intention by using a
`:ruby` filter block instead.

## EmptyScript

Don't write empty scripts.

**Bad: script marker with no code**
```haml
-
```

**Good**
```haml
- some_expression
```

These serve no purpose and are usually left behind by mistake.

## ImplicitDiv

Avoid writing `%div` when it would otherwise be implicit.

**Bad: `div` is unnecessary when class/ID is specified**
```haml
%div.button
```

**Good: `div` is required when no class/ID is specified**
```haml
%div
```

**Good**
```haml
.button
```

HAML was designed to be concise, and not embracing this philosophy makes the
tool less useful.

## LeadingCommentSpace

Separate comments from the leading `#` by a space.

**Bad**
```haml
-#Comment with no space
```

**Good**
```haml
-# Comment with space
```

The latter is more readable.

## LineLength

Option | Description
-------|-----------------------------------------------------------------
`max`  | Maximum number of columns a single line can have. (default `80`)

Wrap lines at 80 characters. You can configure this amount via the `max`
option on the linter, e.g. by adding the following to your `.haml-lint.yml`:

```yaml
linters:
  LineLength:
    max: 100
```

Long lines are harder to read and usually indicative of complexity. You can
avoid them by splitting long attribute hashes on a comma, for example:

```haml
%tag{ attr1: 1,
      attr2: 2,
      attr3: 3 }
```

This significantly improves readability.

## MultilinePipe

Don't span multiple lines using the multiline pipe (`|`) syntax.

**Bad**
```haml
%p= 'Some' + |
    'long' + |
    'string' |
```

**Good: use helpers to generate long dynamic strings**
```haml
%p= generate_long_string
```

**Good: split long method calls on commas**
```haml
%p= some_helper_method(some_value,
                       another_value,
                       yet_another_value)
```

**Good: split attribute definitions/hashes on commas**
```haml
%p{ data: { value: value,
            name: name } }
```

The multiline bar was
[made awkward intentionally](http://haml.info/docs/yardoc/file.REFERENCE.html#multiline).
`haml-lint` takes this a step further by discouraging its use entirely, as it
almost always suggests an unnecessarily complicated template that should have
its logic extracted into a helper.

## ObjectReferenceAttributes

Don't use the
[object reference syntax](http://haml.info/docs/yardoc/file.REFERENCE.html#object_reference_)
to set the class/id of an element.

**Bad**
```haml
%li[@user]
  = @user.name
```

**Good**
```haml
%li.user{ id: "user_#{@user.id}" }
  = @user.name
```

The object reference syntax is a bit magical, and makes it difficult to find
where in your code a particular class attribute is defined. It is also tied
directly to the class names of the objects you pass to it, creating an
unnecessarily coupling which can make refactoring your models affect your
views.

## RuboCop

Option         | Description
---------------|--------------------------------------------
`ignored_cops` | Array of RuboCop cops to ignore.

This linter integrates with [RuboCop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop)
(a static code analyzer and style enforcer) to check the actual Ruby code in
your templates. It will respect any RuboCop-specific configuration you have
set in `.rubocop.yml` files, but will explicitly ignore some checks that
don't make sense in the context of HAML documents (like
`Style/BlockAlignment`).

```haml
-# example.haml
- name = 'James Brown'
- unused_variable = 42

%p Hello #{name}!
```

**Output from `haml-lint`**
```
example.haml:3 [W] Useless assignment to variable - unused_variable
```

You can customize which RuboCop warnings you want to ignore by modifying
the `ignored_cops` option (see [`config/default.yml`](config/default.yml)
for the full list of ignored cops).

## RubyComments

Prefer HAML's built-in comment over ad hoc comments in Ruby code.

**Bad: Space after `#` means comment is actually treated as Ruby code**
```haml
- # A Ruby comment
```

**Good**
```haml
-# A HAML comment
```

While both comment types will result in nothing being output, HAML comments
are a little more flexible in that you can have them span multiple lines, e.g.

```haml
-# This is a multi-line
   HAML comment
```

## SpaceBeforeScript

Separate Ruby script indicators (`-`/`=`) from their code with a single space.

**Bad: no space between `=` and `some_expression`**
```haml
=some_expression
```

**Good**
```haml
= some_expression
```

**Good**
```haml
- some_value = 'Hello World'
```

Ensuring space after `-`/`=` enforces a consistency that all HAML tags/script
indicators are separated from their inline content by a space. Since it is
optional to add a space after `-`/`=` but required when writing `%tag` or
similar, the consistency is best enforced via a linter.

## TagName

Tag names should not contain uppercase letters.

**Bad**
```haml
%BODY
```

**Good**
```haml
%body
```

This is a _de facto_ standard in writing HAML documents as well as HTML in
general, as it is easier to type and matches the convention of many developer
tools. If you are writing HAML to output XML documents, however, it is a strict
requirement.

## UnnecessaryInterpolation

Avoid using unnecessary interpolation for inline tag content.

**Bad**
```haml
%tag #{expression}
```

**Good: more concise**
```haml
%tag= expression
```

## UnnecessaryStringOutput

Avoid outputting string expressions in Ruby when static text will suffice.

**Bad**
```haml
%tag= "Some #{interpolated} string"
```

**Good: more concise**
```haml
%tag Some #{interpolated} string
```

HAML gracefully handles string interpolation in static text, so you don't need
to work with Ruby strings in order to use interpolation.

Commit message:

Add HtmlAttributes linter
Add linter that checks for the use of HTML-style attributes.

Change-Id: Ibbd8461c5c857cafc2d04ee1b977f7cbd8f05971
Reviewed-on: http://gerrit.causes.com/42567
Tested-by: jenkins <jenkins@causes.com>
Reviewed-by: Shane da Silva <shane.dasilva@brigade.com>

lib/haml_lint/linter/README.md, after:

# Linters

Below is a list of linters supported by `haml-lint`, ordered alphabetically.

* [ClassesBeforeIds](#classesbeforeids)
* [ConsecutiveComments](#consecutivecomments)
* [ConsecutiveSilentScripts](#consecutivesilentscripts)
* [EmptyScript](#emptyscript)
* [ImplicitDiv](#implicitdiv)
* [LeadingCommentSpace](#leadingcommentspace)
* [LineLength](#linelength)
* [MultilinePipe](#multilinepipe)
* [ObjectReferenceAttributes](#objectreferenceattributes)
* [RuboCop](#rubocop)
* [RubyComments](#rubycomments)
* [SpaceBeforeScript](#spacebeforescript)
* [TagName](#tagname)
* [UnnecessaryInterpolation](#unnecessaryinterpolation)
* [UnnecessaryStringOutput](#unnecessarystringoutput)

## ClassesBeforeIds

List classes before IDs in tags.

**Bad: ID before class**
```haml
%tag#id.class
```

**Good**
```haml
%tag.class#id
```

These attributes should be listed in order of their specificity. Since the tag
name (if specified) always comes first and has the lowest specificity, classes
and then IDs should follow.

## ConsecutiveComments

Consecutive comments should be condensed into a single multiline comment.

**Bad**
```haml
-# A collection
-# of many
-# consecutive comments
```

**Good**
```haml
-# A multiline comment
   is much more clean
   and concise
```

## ConsecutiveSilentScripts

Option            | Description
------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------
`max_consecutive` | Maximum number of consecutive scripts allowed before warning (default `2`)

Avoid writing multiple lines of Ruby using silent script markers (`-`).

**Bad**
```haml
- expression_one
- expression_two
- expression_three
```

**Better**
```haml
:ruby
  expression_one
  expression_two
  expression_three
```

In general, large blocks of Ruby code in HAML templates are a smell, and this
check serves to warn you of that. However, for the cases where having the code
inline can improve readability, you can signal your intention by using a
`:ruby` filter block instead.

## EmptyScript

Don't write empty scripts.

**Bad: script marker with no code**
```haml
-
```

**Good**
```haml
- some_expression
```

These serve no purpose and are usually left behind by mistake.

## HtmlAttributes

Don't use the
[HTML-style attributes](http://haml.info/docs/yardoc/file.REFERENCE.html#htmlstyle_attributes_)
syntax to define attributes for an element.

**Bad**
```haml
%tag(lang=en)
```

**Good**
```haml
%tag{ lang: 'en' }
```

While the HTML-style attributes syntax can be terser, it introduces additional
complexity to your templates as there are now two different ways to define
attributes. Standardizing on when to use HTML-style versus hash-style adds
greater cognitive load when writing templates. Using one style makes this
easier.

## ImplicitDiv

Avoid writing `%div` when it would otherwise be implicit.

**Bad: `div` is unnecessary when class/ID is specified**
```haml
%div.button
```

**Good: `div` is required when no class/ID is specified**
```haml
%div
```

**Good**
```haml
.button
```

HAML was designed to be concise, and not embracing this philosophy makes the
tool less useful.

## LeadingCommentSpace

Separate comments from the leading `#` by a space.

**Bad**
```haml
-#Comment with no space
```

**Good**
```haml
-# Comment with space
```

The latter is more readable.

## LineLength

Option | Description
-------|-----------------------------------------------------------------
`max`  | Maximum number of columns a single line can have. (default `80`)

Wrap lines at 80 characters. You can configure this amount via the `max`
option on the linter, e.g. by adding the following to your `.haml-lint.yml`:

```yaml
linters:
  LineLength:
    max: 100
```

Long lines are harder to read and usually indicative of complexity. You can
avoid them by splitting long attribute hashes on a comma, for example:

```haml
%tag{ attr1: 1,
      attr2: 2,
      attr3: 3 }
```

This significantly improves readability.

## MultilinePipe

Don't span multiple lines using the multiline pipe (`|`) syntax.

**Bad**
```haml
%p= 'Some' + |
    'long' + |
    'string' |
```

**Good: use helpers to generate long dynamic strings**
```haml
%p= generate_long_string
```

**Good: split long method calls on commas**
```haml
%p= some_helper_method(some_value,
                       another_value,
                       yet_another_value)
```

**Good: split attribute definitions/hashes on commas**
```haml
%p{ data: { value: value,
            name: name } }
```

The multiline bar was
[made awkward intentionally](http://haml.info/docs/yardoc/file.REFERENCE.html#multiline).
`haml-lint` takes this a step further by discouraging its use entirely, as it
almost always suggests an unnecessarily complicated template that should have
its logic extracted into a helper.

## ObjectReferenceAttributes

Don't use the
[object reference syntax](http://haml.info/docs/yardoc/file.REFERENCE.html#object_reference_)
to set the class/id of an element.

**Bad**
```haml
%li[@user]
  = @user.name
```

**Good**
```haml
%li.user{ id: "user_#{@user.id}" }
  = @user.name
```

The object reference syntax is a bit magical, and makes it difficult to find
where in your code a particular class attribute is defined. It is also tied
directly to the class names of the objects you pass to it, creating an
unnecessarily coupling which can make refactoring your models affect your
views.

## RuboCop

Option         | Description
---------------|--------------------------------------------
`ignored_cops` | Array of RuboCop cops to ignore.

This linter integrates with [RuboCop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop)
(a static code analyzer and style enforcer) to check the actual Ruby code in
your templates. It will respect any RuboCop-specific configuration you have
set in `.rubocop.yml` files, but will explicitly ignore some checks that
don't make sense in the context of HAML documents (like
`Style/BlockAlignment`).

```haml
-# example.haml
- name = 'James Brown'
- unused_variable = 42

%p Hello #{name}!
```

**Output from `haml-lint`**
```
example.haml:3 [W] Useless assignment to variable - unused_variable
```

You can customize which RuboCop warnings you want to ignore by modifying
the `ignored_cops` option (see [`config/default.yml`](config/default.yml)
for the full list of ignored cops).

## RubyComments

Prefer HAML's built-in comment over ad hoc comments in Ruby code.

**Bad: Space after `#` means comment is actually treated as Ruby code**
```haml
- # A Ruby comment
```

**Good**
```haml
-# A HAML comment
```

While both comment types will result in nothing being output, HAML comments
are a little more flexible in that you can have them span multiple lines, e.g.

```haml
-# This is a multi-line
   HAML comment
```

## SpaceBeforeScript

Separate Ruby script indicators (`-`/`=`) from their code with a single space.

**Bad: no space between `=` and `some_expression`**
```haml
=some_expression
```

**Good**
```haml
= some_expression
```

**Good**
```haml
- some_value = 'Hello World'
```

Ensuring space after `-`/`=` enforces a consistency that all HAML tags/script
indicators are separated from their inline content by a space. Since it is
optional to add a space after `-`/`=` but required when writing `%tag` or
similar, the consistency is best enforced via a linter.

## TagName

Tag names should not contain uppercase letters.

**Bad**
```haml
%BODY
```

**Good**
```haml
%body
```

This is a _de facto_ standard in writing HAML documents as well as HTML in
general, as it is easier to type and matches the convention of many developer
tools. If you are writing HAML to output XML documents, however, it is a strict
requirement.

## UnnecessaryInterpolation

Avoid using unnecessary interpolation for inline tag content.

**Bad**
```haml
%tag #{expression}
```

**Good: more concise**
```haml
%tag= expression
```

## UnnecessaryStringOutput

Avoid outputting string expressions in Ruby when static text will suffice.

**Bad**
```haml
%tag= "Some #{interpolated} string"
```

**Good: more concise**
```haml
%tag Some #{interpolated} string
```

HAML gracefully handles string interpolation in static text, so you don't need
to work with Ruby strings in order to use interpolation.
